The Simplified KJV:
Changes to Be Made to the King James Version
There will be no substantive changes to the KJV text; the translation itself remains secure.
Changes fall into the main categories following:
•

•
•
•
•
•
•

Revise/update/add punctuation as appropriate.
o Break up long sentences by changing colons and semicolons to periods. Capitalize
first letter following.
o Add or remove commas to conform to modern style.
o Change colons and semicolons to commas when appropriate.
Add quotation marks to spoken words.
Change “an” to “a” before words beginning with h
Add paragraph breaks where appropriate, to aid reading and comprehension.
Capitalize divine pronouns (He, His, Him, Himself, You, Your, Yours, Me, My, Mine,
Us, Our)
Lower case extraneous capitals in the middle of sentences.
Update old verb styles. Examples:
o abode→abided
o art→are
o baptizest→baptizes
o baptizest thou→do you baptize
o bare→bore
o be→are (e.g. there be/are many that…)
o begat→begot
o believest thou→you believe
o belongeth→belongs
o biddeth→bids
o bloweth→blows
o builded→built
o canst→can
o cometh→comes
o compasseth→compasses
o creepeth→creeps
o criest→cries
o defendest→defend
o digged→dug
o doest→do
o doth→does (occasionally deleted if the compound form allows; e.g. doth
know→knows / doth set→sets)
▪ Similarly, did eat→ate
o driveth→drives
o durst not→did not dare
o dwellest thou→do you dwell
o dwelt→dwelled

•

o eatest—eat
o findeth→finds, found
o gavest→gave
o goeth—goes
o hast→have
o hatest→hate
o hath→has
o heardest→heard
o hearest→hear
o judgeth→judges
o knowest→know
o knowest thou→do you know
o knoweth→knows
o liest→lies
o lighteth→lights
o makest→make
o mayest→may
o moveth→moves
o ordaineth→ordains
o prating→talking
o prospereth→prospers
o saith→said, says
o saveth→saves
o sayest thou→do you say
o seek ye→do you seek
o seeth→saw
o shalt→shall
o shew→show
o shewest thou→do you show
o shineth→shines
o shouldest→should
o sitteth→sits
o slayeth→slays
o spake→spoke
o standeth→stands
o tillest→till
o travaileth→travails
o trieth→tries
o walkest→walk
o walketh→walks
o wast→were
o waxest→waxes
o wilt→will
Update old forms of address:
o thou→you
o ye→you

•

•

•

o thee→you
o thy→your
o thyself→yourself
Update outdated or less common word forms. Examples:
o any→anyone
o awaked→awoke
o bowels→heart, hearts
o brethren→brothers
o convenient→proper
o defence→defense
o favour→favor
o for ever→forever
o honour→honor
o instructer→instructor
o me→myself (when appropriate; e.g. I laid me/myself down…)
o much→very (much bold→very bold)
o of→by (spoken of/by the apostles)
o of→from (taken nothing of/by the Gentiles)
o ought→anything
o sepulchre→sepulcher
o sixscore→120
o subtil→subtle
o that→who (he that→he who)
o thence→from there
o therewith→with that
o unto→to
o whatsoever→whatever
o wherefore→for that reason
o wherefore→therefore
o wherein→in which
o whosoever→whoever
o withal→with that
o wrought→worked
o yea→yes
Update old forms of names. Examples:
o Core→Korah
o Elias→Elijah
o Esaias→Isaiah
o Messias→Messiah
o passover→Passover
o Baalim→the Baals
Allow for minor changes to sentence structure, to conform to contemporary style.
Examples:
o Say not→Don’t say
o said I→I said
o Be not afraid→Don’t be afraid

o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
•

What seest thou→What do you see
Thus saith the Lord→This is what the Lord says
Hear ye→hear
said they→did they say
hewed them out→hewed out
hast thou not→haven’t you
hast thou→do you have
why gaddest→why do you go
that→who (when referring to people)
them that→those who
they that→those who

Additional changes, not to the actual KJV text: Revise/update/add section headers as
appropriate

THE FIRST BOOK OF MOSES, CALLED

GENESIS
INTRODUCTION TO GENESIS
The first eleven chapters of Genesis trace events such as creation, the fall,
the flood, and the establishing of the nations. The accounts of four great
people complete the book in chapters 12–50: Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and
Joseph. Genesis comes from the Greek word geneseos, meaning “origin,
source, generation, or beginning.”
AUTHOR
Although Genesis does not directly name its author, Jesus and the writers of
scripture clearly believed that Moses was the author of the Pentateuch (the
first five books of the Bible, often referred to in the New Testament as “the
law”; see Mark 10:3–5; Luke 24:44).
OCCASION
Genesis spans more time than any other book in the Bible. In fact, it covers
more years than all the remaining sixty-five books of the Bible put together
(approximately 2,400 years). The total duration is from the time of creation
to the time when the Israelites arrive in Egypt and grow into a nation (about
1800 BC). The date of Genesis is sometime after the Exodus, during the
fifteenth century BC.

Genesis 1:1

2

The Story of Original Creation
In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. 2 And the earth was without
form and void. And darkness was on the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God
moved on the face of the waters. 3 And God said, “Let there be light,” and there was
light. 4 And God saw the light, that it was good, and God divided the light from the
darkness. 5 And God called the light Day, and the darkness He called Night. And the
evening and the morning were the first day.
6 And God said, “Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it
divide the waters from the waters.”
7 And God made the firmament and divided the waters that were under the firmament from the waters that were above the firmament, and it was so. 8 And God called
the firmament Heaven. And the evening and the morning were the second day.
9 And God said, “Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together to one
place, and let the dry land appear.” And it was so. 10 And God called the dry land
Earth, and the gathering together of the waters He called Seas. And God saw that it
was good.
11And God said, “Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb-yielding seed, and the
fruit tree yielding fruit according to his kind, whose seed is in itself, on the earth.”
And it was so. 12 And the earth brought forth grass and herb yielding seed according
to his kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed was in itself, according to his kind.
And God saw that it was good. 13 And the evening and the morning were the third
day.
14 And God said, “Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the
day from the night, and let them be for signs and for seasons, and for days and years.
15 And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light on the earth.”
And it was so. 16 And God made two great lights: the greater light to rule the day and
the lesser light to rule the night. He made the stars also. 17 And God set them in the
firmament of the heaven to give light on the earth, 18 and to rule over the day and over
the night, and to divide the light from the darkness. And God saw that it was good.
19 And the evening and the morning were the fourth day.
20 And God said, “Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creature that
has life and fowl that may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven.” 21 And
God created great whales and every living creature that moves, which the waters
brought forth abundantly, according to their kind, and every winged fowl according to
his kind. And God saw that it was good. 22 And God blessed them, saying, “Be fruitful
and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth.” 23 And
the evening and the morning were the fifth day.
24 And God said, “Let the earth bring forth the living creature according to his
kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth according to his kind.” And
it was so. 25 And God made the beast of the earth according to his kind, and cattle
according to their kind, and everything that creeps on the earth according to his kind.
And God saw that it was good.
26 And God said, “Let Us make man in Our image, according to Our likeness, and
let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over
the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the
earth.” 27 So God created man in His own image, in the image of God He created him;
male and female He created them. 28 And God blessed them, and God said to them,
“Be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it. And have dominion
over the fish of the sea and over the fowl of the air and over every living thing that
moves on the earth.”
29 And God said, “Behold, I have given you every herb-bearing seed that is on the
face of all the earth and every tree, in which is the fruit of a tree-yielding seed; to you
it shall be for meat. 30 And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air,
and to everything that creeps on the earth in which there is life, I have given every

1

3

Genesis ﻿3:3

green herb for meat.” And it was so. 31 And God saw everything that He had made,
and behold, it was very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day.
The Sabbath Rest of God
Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. 2 And on
the seventh day God ended His work that He had made, and He rested on the seventh day from all His work that He had made. 3 And God blessed the seventh day and
sanctified it, because in it He had rested from all His work that God created and made.

2

The Creation of Man
4 These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created,
in the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heavens, 5 and every plant of the
field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew. For the Lord
God had not caused it to rain on the earth, and there was not a man to till the ground.
6 But a mist went up from the earth and watered the whole face of the ground. 7 And
the Lord God formed man from the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils
the breath of life, and man became a living soul.
The Habitation of Unfallen Man
8 And the Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden, and there He put the man
whom He had formed. 9 And out of the ground the Lord God made to grow every
tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food. The tree of life was also in the
midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil. 10 And a river went
out of Eden to water the garden, and from there it parted and became four heads.
11 The name of the first is Pishon; it is the one that compasses the whole land of
Havilah, where there is gold. 12 And the gold of that land is good. There is bdellium
and the onyx stone. 13 And the name of the second river is Gihon; it is the same one
that surrounds the whole land of Ethiopia. 14 And the name of the third river is Hiddekel; it is the one that goes toward the east of Assyria. And the fourth river is Euphrates.
15 And the Lord God took the man and put him into the garden of Eden to dress
it and to keep it. 16 And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, “Of every tree of
the garden you may freely eat, 17 but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, you
shall not eat of it, for in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die.”
18 And the Lord God said, “It is not good that the man should be alone; I will make
him a help suitable for him.” 19 And out of the ground the Lord God formed every
beast of the field and every fowl of the air, and brought them to Adam to see what he
would call them. And whatever Adam called every living creature, that was the name
of it. 20 And Adam gave names to all cattle, and to the fowl of the air, and to every
beast of the field, but for Adam there was not found a help suitable for him.
The Creation of Woman
21 And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall on Adam, and he slept. And He
took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh instead of it. 22 And from the rib, which
the Lord God had taken from man, He made a woman and brought her to the man.
23 And Adam said, “This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh; she shall be
called Woman, because she was taken out of Man.”
24 Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and shall cleave to his wife,
and they shall be one flesh. 25 And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and
were not ashamed.
The Temptation of Eve
Now the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field that the Lord God
had made. And he said to the woman, “Yes, has God said, ‘You shall not eat of
every tree of the garden’?”
2 And the woman said to the serpent, “We may eat of the fruit from the trees of the
garden, 3 but of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, God has said,
‘You shall not eat from it, neither shall you touch it, lest you die.’”

3

Genesis 3:4

4

4 And the serpent said to the woman, “You shall not surely die, 5 for God knows
that in the day you eat from it, then your eyes shall be opened and you shall be as
gods, knowing good and evil.”

The Fall
6 And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant
to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, she took from the fruit of it and
ate, and gave also to her husband with her, and he ate. 7 And the eyes of them both
were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together
and made themselves aprons. 8 And they heard the voice of the Lord God walking
in the garden in the cool of the day, and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the
presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden.
9 And the Lord God called to Adam and said to him, “Where are you?”
10 And he said, “I heard Your voice in the garden, and I was afraid because I was
naked, and I hid myself.”
11 And He said, “Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree
of which I commanded you that you should not eat?”
12 And the man said, “The woman whom You gave to be with me, she gave me
from the tree, and I ate.”
13 And the Lord God said to the woman, “What is this that you have done?”
And the woman said, “The serpent beguiled me, and I ate.”
The Curse of the Fall
14 And the Lord God said to the serpent, “Because you have done this, you are cursed
above all cattle and above every beast of the field; on your belly you shall go, and you
shall eat dust all the days of your life. 15 And I will put enmity between you and the
woman, and between your seed and her seed; He shall bruise your head, and you
shall bruise His heel.”
16 To the woman He said, “I will greatly multiply your sorrow and your conception;
in sorrow you shall bring forth children, and your desire shall be for your husband,
and he shall rule over you.”
17 And to Adam He said, “Because you have listened to the voice of your wife and
have eaten from the tree of which I commanded you, saying, ‘You shall not eat of it,’
cursed is the ground for your sake; in sorrow you shall eat of it all the days of your life.
18 Thorns and also thistles it shall bring forth to you, and you shall eat the herb of the
field. 19 In the sweat of your face you shall eat bread till you return to the ground, for
out of it you were taken. For you are dust, and to dust you shall return.”
20 And Adam called his wife’s name Eve, because she was the mother of all living.
21 For Adam and also for his wife the Lord God made coats of skins and clothed them.
22 And the Lord God said, “Behold, the man has become like one of Us, to know good
and evil, and now, lest he put forth his hand and take also of the tree of life, and eat,
and live forever—” 23 therefore the Lord God sent him forth from the garden of Eden
to till the ground from where he was taken. 24 So He drove out the man, and He placed
at the east of the garden of Eden cherubim and a flaming sword that turned every
way, to keep the way of the tree of life.
The First Sons of Adam and Eve
And Adam knew Eve, his wife, and she conceived and bore Cain, and said, “I
have gotten a man from the Lord.” 2 And again, she bore his brother Abel. And
Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. 3 And in process of
time it came to pass that Cain brought from the fruit of the ground an offering to
the Lord. 4 And Abel also brought from the firstlings of his flock and from the fat
from them. And the Lord had respect for Abel and for his offering, 5 but for Cain
and for his offering, He did not have respect. And Cain was very angry, and his
countenance fell.
6 And the Lord said to Cain, “Why are you angry? And why has your countenance

4

